the creators of the movie
Jurassic Park use sounds from a
baby elephant
alligator and tiger combined to
bring the dinosaur roar to life
audiences loved it but
scientists not so much
their terror lizards trace here
for dnews dinosaurs have been
gone for 65 million years so no
human has ever heard one roar
never in the movies dinosaurs
had sustained echoing howls but
in real life
nah bro a paper from 2009's
historical biology attempted to
reveal exactly what some of
these animals may have sounded
like
and let me tell you t-rex
probably didn't roar instead the
king of the dinosaurs may have
just said there may be nothing
at all
first there is no fossilized
evidence of dinosaur voice boxes
voice boxes are made of flesh
so they don't fossilize and thus
we will probably never know
without a shadow of a doubt with
these animals really sounded
like but paleontologist Phil
center researched the
vocalizations of living dinosaur
e & relatives to try and make an
educated guess
66 million years ago at the end
of the mesozoic era most
dinosaurs went extinct in the KT
extinction event
ninety-five percent of the birds
we have today according to their
DNA evolved from any small
dinosaurs not killed by the KT
event 10 million years after
that the first shared ancestor
of all living modern crocodiles
evolved and they remained
relatively unchanged ever since
so by looking at birds and
crocodiles scientists figure we
might find some hint at what
dinosaurs sounded like to roar
animals have to have a voice box
and in the case of Crocs and
birds they come in different
types
crocs use a larynx the same kind
of organ miss you and me
birds use a little different
organ called a shrinks which
generates birdsong
dr. Julia Clark of the
University of Texas at Austin
told me in an email
the shrinks had no precursor
organ it evolved with birds
after dinosaur extinction and
from fossil evidence we know the
larynx did the same
so because birds and Crocs and
their voice boxes evolved after
the mass extinction of dinosaurs
researchers posit they're
commonly shared ancestor
dinosaur probably couldn't
vocalize it all
essentially we know dinosaurs
didn't roar because they didn't
involve voice boxes until later
as far as we know but just
because they didn't roar doesn't
mean they didn't make noise a
paper and anatomical record
points out many dinosaurs had
nasal cavities and
clouds and connective noses this
connection inside of the skull
created residence chambers which
allows animals to create all
sorts of sounds
even without the larynx or
shrinks and literally on top of
that the Lambeosaurus and
hadrosaurus had massive
resonating crests connected to
their breathing tracks which
researchers think could amplify
those noises even further we
found fossils of these crests
so they can prove it in some
researchers blue air through
them to show that they could
have produced low-frequency
sounds just like modern Crocs
and some elephants
so even though that in roar
dinosaurs could have drummed
grown history gurgled click
rattled trip to interrupt just
like their modern relatives
calling out that you're the best
at hunting or mating is super
important in the animal world
that's why we vocalize but
calling out your portfolio of
photos books are Kanye gifts and
gifs is super important in the
internet world
what better way to do that with
your own website and no domain
extension will help you tell
your story like a.com or.net
domain name because you watch TV
news you can get fifteen percent
off domain.com names and web
hosting use the code dnews when
you check out and it will help
the show -
so thanks if you're looking for
more dinosaur stuff you should
take a second to watch my other
science show and podcast
test-tube plus over on ttp we
dive deep into the controversy
of the earliest Dino discoveries
have some dinosaurs that you
know might not actually be real
the black market of dinosaur
fossils and how we might even be
able to bring these bad boys
back and according to professor
of history of science and
technology at keele university
in the UK q torrents Owens key
contribution was not just
dreaming up this cool
charismatic name terrible lizard
which they aren't so Owen come
on man
they're not even lizards does it
bother you when Hollywood make
stuff about dinosaurs like why
didn't velociraptors have
feathers in the movies
dinosaurs had feathers made up
let me know your thoughts down
in the comments and please
subscribe to dnews you'll get
all of our videos we make them
every day all week
yeah